sex sex happens in prison but it is not
it is a rule that you're not supposed to
have sex you can't hold hands you can't
kiss
nothing like that does it happen yeah
but we would prefer that it didn't
before I got here when people were hot
meaning we walked in on them they were
handcuffed walked over to segregation we
started talking about that a little bit
because sex is not against the law out
on the streets I had a hard time with
people getting handcuffed after they
were caught because I don't want women
to feel dirty
about their bodies or about what they do
and so it's important that we also
respect that Cheryl wants to treat the
women as grown-ups but sex is the main
disciplinary problem in the prison
officers patrol the rooms every half
hour two women have just been caught in
back together
[Music]
no tomorrow Maya Williams is a counselor
I want to find out what is allows
between prisoners when you catch them in
the act
what happens now that were being more
gender responsive we try to do things a
little bit differently if it's a male
officer he'll kind of step away and say
get you clothes on and and you need to
come out if it was mutual we let them
know that this is not appropriate
we understand that women our
relationship driven though as much as we
think like we're doing everything to
stop it it's very very very hard it's
very complicated it is very complicated
women have needs yeah oh yes and they're
the relationship driven and that don't I
was in here or is it just like oral no
they do everything you would be amazed
they make those and as much children
they make them yes I think before they
used oatmeal I don't know yeah and I
think they cook it or something one lady
said that they would use hot dogs so you
had to be careful the weight you know
with them bringing the hot dogs back and
putting them so they come up with some
things I mean I've never had that before
hot dogs
[Music]
I can see why I haven't been cut off
from the outside world
many women seek out relationships inside
[Music]
judy wire was married with children when
she was convicted of first-degree murder
then she met her Lena Burrell better
known as pops who is also serving life
for murder somehow they've managed to
keep a relationship going for more than
30 years each have been together longer
than I've been alive it's a long time I
suppose
was it love at first sight yeah why did
she fall for pop so quickly I don't know
she abhorred being in prison no sir that
isn't too many I don't know just like
the way you work and work we're really
best friends because I mean that just a
little yeah so when people say something
I say we're companions
the relationship changes over years you
prioritize different things love are you
awake today are you agree it's less
about the sex and more about checking if
you're alive yeah I guess to survive a
life sentence
you need relationships whether it's
inside or outside prison
today is a big day because it's visitors
day and I would say there was a buzz
about the place you know that's a queue
for the showers girls are putting their
lippy on the hair dryers are going let
look at me you've got it on your tooth
yes gone
[Music]
visitors day is complicated for Tatyana
Dixon she served in life for
first-degree murder but her longtime
partner Kristen was released from prison
two years ago most prisons wouldn't
allow them to see each other again but
Cheryl allows Kristen to visit twice a
year how did you two get together anyway
she was a a tutor up in education but I
was always shy around her on my wife and
I would tell my friends all right I'm
gonna get her she's just so smart I like
smart people she's one of the smartest
people I've ever met
they were always like women yes Shay no
I'm a fair settlement does she'll allow
you to embrace yeah we get two before
for the visit and after the visit
hey that's smoke yes got a couple of
months wife locked inside you yeah
that's for sure
there's your future together look like
realistically what it looks like is what
we have every day and talk every day as
far as what the future of future votes I
can't predict I understand the severity
of the situation I have life she has a
life
he looks smart how long do you get with
Kristen or do you did yep thank you
I've got butterflies yeah it's nothing
nice to risk there than going to see
your special person
[Music]
I'm saying yeah likewise see I've had so
much about you Kristen I thought I'm
meeting the Queen I really do have it
down to your knees what's my knees your
shirt well that's okay we're still gonna
yeah yeah oh I didn't know here to Italy
you're looking too cute man you can't be
its assertive pants are you serious it's
a shirt
it's a shirt and then you're just just
broken I think you will really split
people I think some people will think we
recognized that these women are human
beings as well as offenders other people
will say you're too soft on these women
Prison is too comfortable they've got
all of these privileges that the victims
families might not want them to have oh
I think there will be people that will
look at me and think you need to
experience what we experienced and I
understand that yeah I got to
and what would you say if they said
they're not suffering they're not
hurting in the same way that we are
correct they aren't they're still alive
and my job is to keep them safe and make
this place a humane place while they're
still on earth but at the end of the day
there's times that I think I questioned
myself am i doing the right thing
[Music]